when you look at this picture you might
think well this is a young person maybe
a teenager I know well she is this girl
in particular this is just a young
person doing something silly playing a
prank could be you know when I was
younger I did some stupid things too if
an older person is directing that
teenager to play these pranks if an
older person an adult is offering the
rewards of money and attention and fame
and even housing and food and meals a
whole sort of alternate family and
alternate social structure structure a
whole incentive system built into this
so-called political movement that comes
to resemble a cult that's different I
think there's a tremendous moral and
ethical difference between teenagers
behaving badly and fully grown adults
stage-managing the bad behavior of
teenagers as publicity stunts ultimately
to build up the public support donations
fame and notoriety for their so-called
political movement that's me
in Dodger Stadium on the pitcher's mound
it's the middle of the ninth inning and
the game is tied three to three I'm
standing next to a major league pitcher
Kenley Jansen and judging by his
expression he isn't too thrilled that
I'm there because if it isn't obvious
already I'm not a professional baseball
player in fact that was the very first
time I ever went to a baseball game and
I honestly can't tell you who won
because 30 seconds after this picture
was taken my sign was ripped out of my
hand
I was tackled by security guards
handcuffed and dragged off the field all
on live TV
I was then stuffed into the back of a
patrol car arrested by the LAPD and I
spent the next four hours being held in
custody and
by the police this was one year ago and
I was 14 years old if you're vegan and
you care about vegan activism
you've probably heard some strange
things about direct action everywhere
lately you've probably heard about the
charismatic leader of direct action
everywhere having two teenage girls as
his main acolytes appearing on camera
with them making announcements with them
you've probably heard things about
teenage girls sleeping in strange
situations in the main headquarters of
direct action everywhere whether that's
just because they don't have enough beds
to go around and people are sleeping in
closets and people are sleeping in other
people's beds or whether it's for other
reasons you've probably heard some
strange things that anyone from the most
neutral and detached perspective could
say or at the least bad optics for a
quote-unquote political organization a
political organization that is more and
more easily coming to be described as a
cult and I spent the next four hours
being held in custody and questioned by
the police this was one year ago and I
was 14 years old
plenty of 14 year olds might do
something just as foolish made up off
the top of their own head but when they
do it under the direction of a fully
grown adult it's different when they
take on such a project as part of a
political organization a religious
organization or a cult and at this point
DXE direct action everywhere resembles
all three the ethical problem we're
dealing with here is different this is a
fourteen-year-old girl problem doesn't
only exist when you're talking about
people under the age of 18 and it
doesn't only exist when you're talking
about females
rather than males doesn't all right
fully grown women 35 and 45 can you have
years and years of their life screwed
by this kind of activism fully grown men
can too but yes the problem is even more
obvious when you're talking about people
who are at the crucial age when they
should be attending high school or when
they should be actively worrying about
applications to join a college get job
training enter the workforce
sign up join the military you name it
this is not a unique case study this
young woman aged 14 at the time for
arrest I know other examples 17 years
old 18 years old 16 years old I know
things I'm not gonna say on the internet
and I'm not gonna say on YouTube I know
the direct action everywhere have
created a long-term public relations
nightmare for themselves here they've
done something that peda would never do
People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals don't have teenage girls living
in their house with them that's they've
done something PCRM Physicians Committee
for Responsible medicine would never do
they've taken a fateful step here
without really thinking it through
without acting strategically in total
violation of all the founding principles
this organization was created to serve
we know from scientific studies and
observation the chickens feel fear pain
love and contentment they desire peace
and happiness just like we do if you
have ever spent time with a chicken then
you've probably seen this for yourself
it is individuals like sleepy who I
think about when I protest at grocery
stores and restaurants it is their
stories they keep me on my feet and yes
it's driven me to take actions that some
of you might even roll your eyes at but
let's just note that because of these
actions I was invited to speak here and
I just got to educate all of you about
animal
right for ten minutes so that's
something
and no I wasn't there because I thought
it was cool fun or exciting in fact I
knew that my actions would be frowned
upon by most people because viewers
would see me as being disruptive or rude
after all I was breaking the law right
there in front of them and taking the
consequences for all to see
but the thing is I am NOT here to
demonize wayne's young on the basis of
rumor and innuendo I'm not I'm here to
remind you I'm here to remind everyone
in the dxz organization of the high
standard you were supposed to be holding
yourselves to you were founded on the
promise that you were gonna be better
than past movements you were gonna be
better than petaa People for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals you were gonna be
better than them because you were only
going to use methods that had proven to
be effective by the high standards of
social science research whereas the
social science research behind this
strategy Wayne whatever it was this
movement was supposed to embody this
ain't it I'm even willing to believe the
best I'm willing to believe there are no
bad intentions behind having these
teenage girls living in the DXE house
having 17 year olds sleeping in a closet
maybe because you ran into bedrooms or
having teenagers sharing beds to other
people
that whole story Wayne about what
happened when you and Priya broke up
temporarily and Priya had another
boyfriend and that boyfriend was linked
to a certain much younger woman and
there were allegations of a certain
crime being committed yeah yeah yeah I
know all that to Wayne
absolutely nothing about this
organization you're running
looks like it was informed by or planned
on the basis of social science research
you look like a crummy cult leader
who's just trying to power-monger and
chase headlines get Fame and notoriety
by manipulating some of the weakest
people the people were the most easily
manipulated including teenage girls into
doing one stunt after another one
publicity stunt one form of embarrassing
denigrating activism after another so
you can get your name into the headlines
in the newspaper and what's the
long-term outcome gonna be for these
girls I know I know there are women in
their 40s who are screwed up by d-x you
know there are men in their 30s whatever
all ages all genders but obviously the
long-term impact for someone who got
involved at age 14 or age 17 it's going
to be even more obvious it's gonna be
even worse nothing about the
organization you're running Wayne even
if I assume the best even if I assume
there's no hanky-panky there's no sexual
element to this there's no even I assume
that Wayne you set out with a very clear
mission statement and mandate the
founding principles of direct action
everywhere were clear to everyone
involved somewhere along the way the
leadership for God what those principles
were
[Music]